---
title: Stop Words: When do we stop?
layout: Post 
---
Since my thesis will be using Network Analysis I have really been focussing on the various tools that digital humanities scholars use that could be related to this. I find Text Analysis tools challenge the way I think about Network Analysis in a positive way.
When we talked about Ant Conc today in class, I had already previously used it in my Digital Humanities seminar. I used this in combination with Voyant to do a text analysis assignment. As soon as I went through this tutorial I remember thinking how much easier my assignment would have been if I had these instructions! AntConc is easy to follow, but is difficult if you feed it the wrong document. 
What came up in discussion today was the value of "Stop Words" in these tools. There are standard lists of Stop Words in these programs and you are able to create custom lists, as well. What we discussed mostly surrounded these custom lists. To what extent do Stop Words have the power to lead your research astray? The example we used in class would have very different results if the stop words "we" and "the" were eliminated (as "we the people" was a key phrase), as they are in standard English Stop Words lists. This is where we as historians need to recognize that these programs can only take our analysis and projects so far. We have to be mindful of the role they play, and understand our role alongside tools such as Ant Conc.  
That being said, a tool like Ant Conc is extremely powerful. Topic modelling can aid researchers find different topics in a number of documents that they may not pick out automatically. In my own research I have noticed that themes and topics appear that I would not have thought of without these tools. 
What can be taken away from this is to not be afraid of these programs, although they have the power to lead your findings astray, but recognize both their role and the assumptions built into them, while being transparent about your own assumptions as you work. 
