---
layout: post 
title: Down The Rabbit Hole We Go! 
---
We've all heard someone say "uh oh, don't go down the rabbit hole." Well I am saying, let's go! If there is anything I have learned in this course, the rabbit hole is where we learn. While there are minor setbacks (like potentially downloading the entire internet or deleting all of your files - which you most likely do not have stored anywhere other than your desktop) walking into the digital unknown is highly educational. 
In my blog post about seminar last week, I talk about how useful it would have been to have the tutorial for Ant Conc while doing a previous assignment for my Digital Humanities class. I've realized that while it is useful to have a tutorial for tools, I did learn a lot myself without the tutorial. I had to search for other ways of learning Ant Conc, by googling for tutorials, videos, and blogs dedicated to unpacking the mysteries of this program. By doing so, I learned much more about the usefulness of the internet itself, in addition to Ant Conc. It enhanced my experience (perhaps adding to the frustration at times!) and appreciation for the tool and what it can do for my research.
In another sense, I do think it is very valuable to go "down the rabbit hole" when discussing what the heck we are doing in the digital humanities. What purpose is our work here? Is it similar to public history? Is digital work always public facing? These questions, while daunting (and I certainly do not claim to have any answers to them) encourage discussion of the purpose behind some aspects digital work. In tackling these questions, we can find out a lot more about our own motives behind digital work too. I think that we might also find our reasons for entering this class were much more than fulfilling a degree requirement. 
